layout: post
title: "Using S2E to find vulnerable windows/linux kernel drivers"
date: 2023-01-10 02:02:02 -0000
categories: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2

## Introduction

Since many years ago, kernel drivers that expose specific primitives that allow arbitrary usermode inputs have been leveraged for privilege escalation. Multiple PoC projects have been written to manually map code into the kernel using signed vulnerable drivers, including z175's KDMapper, which exploits MmMapIoSpace in Intel's driver, and xeroxz's MsrExec, which exploits a msr write primitive in corsair's iCUE driver. Recently, threat actors such as Scattered Spider have been attempting to utilize KDMapper to bypass Crowdstrike's EDR in cyberattacks targeting ISP companies. Abusing a vulnerable driver to map rootkits is an effective technique for getting around security software and establishing persistence.

What if you wanted to find your own vulnerable driver? There are numerous public tools for finding vulnerable drivers, but almost all of them simply parse the drivers' import tables for physical memory mapping functions. It takes a long time to manually examine each driver to see if its exploitable imports can be callled with arbitrary parameters from usermode.

After doing some more googling, I came across POPKORN, an angr-based tool for performing taint analysis on drivers to automatically find exploitable MmMapIoSpace, ZwMapViewOfSection, and ZwOpenProcess primitives. 

"The core idea behind POPKORN is to symbolically explore driver
functions and automatically check whether the parameters of certain
critical functions (such as MmMapIoSpace) can be directly controlled
by a user-space program"

I was inspired by POPKORN to create my own vulnerable driver scanner implementation, r00tFind. R00tFind adds support for Linux drivers, and broadens the symbolic exploration to search for other exploitable primitives.

### Symbolic execution

I had to choose a symbolic execution framework for r00tFind:

- Angr: This is probably the easiest symbolic execution framework to use, with built in functions for path exploration, but it was entirely coded in Python, and I didn't want to work with python.
- MIASM: Same as above
- Triton: Triton provides an easy, simple C++ library, but it doesn't properly support snapshotting/path exploration.
- S2E: S2E has unparalleled performance because it uses QEMU or KVM as a concolic emulation backend. However, every driver needs a unique s2e environment configuration, and setting up an s2e project involved a million steps.  It's best used for analyzing single complex targets with multiple parts instead. I later realized that S2E wasn't just a symbolic execution framework, but an entire environment built around the KLEE framework.
- KLEE: KLEE is basically just the core of S2E, without any of the bells and whistles. I could've used McSema to lift the compiled drivers to LLVM and pass the bitcode to KLEE, but my harness was required to be compiled into the LLVM bitcode of the binary, which I really didnt want to do bc that meant injecting code into the thing 

I eventually went with MAAT, 



## Finding driver dispatch routines 

To start off, I needed to find all of the I/O dispatch routines of the driver, because user input is passed to the dispatch routine through the IRP (I/O request packet). Since I/O routines are set up in the driver object passed to DriverEntry(). I symbolized the 2nd parameter DriverObject, and used DFS (depth-first search) on DriverEntry and  . 

After finding every I/O routine in the driver, taint analysis on the inputs passed through the IRP. 

### Windows - IRP dispatch routines
### Linux - file operations

### Exploitation primitives


Exploitable kernel driver primitives include:
- Arbitrary physical memory read/write (MmMapIoSpace, ZwMapViewOfSection, )
- MSR write instructions (can be used to write to IA32_LSTAR syscall handler address MSR)
- in/out port instructions (can be used to overwrite kernel images on disk, for kernel code execution)
- Arbitrary kernel memory read/write 

## Kernel write primitives

## Physical memory read/write primitives

## Arbitrary MSR write

## in/out port instructions?

## Bonus